>> Richard Feldman: And the final
thing is using modules for modularity.
So what does that mean?
One of the things we noted about
the editor file, it's pretty long.
It's about 600 lines of code.
That sounds like a lot for
one module, or for one file.
At the risk of repeating
something that Evan,
I think gave an excellent talk on, which
we'll link to called the Life of a File.
One of the things worth noting
about Elm Files is that
the primary purpose of a module is
this line right here, exposing.
It's to hide things,
it's to organize things that are related
into a particular module, and then to
say some of these implementation details
only matter to the related
things inside this module.
And generally speaking,
they're built around a particular type.
For example,
on pages usually that type is the model.
Everything in this page has
to do with this model, and
probably nobody else should
be messing with that model.
As it happens, due to this current, the
way that this single page application is
constructed, I do need to expose the model
so that main can have access to it.
But that is hopefully a temporary
implementation detail and
in the future we can do away with that.
A better example would be
something like profile.
Here's our profile.
We have profile being an opaque type.
It's got an internals record that
stores some information that only this
profile module cares about.
It doesn't expose them.
So they're named internals for a reason,
they don't go outside this module.
We've got the opaque type of profile,
then we have a very small API of
stuff you can do with the profile.
You can get the avatar, you can get the
bio, and you can get a decoder for it, and
that's it.
So this is a very compact Elm module.
In terms of lines of code,
yeah okay, it's also a lot smaller.
It's only 50 compared to editor.
Less than, more than an order of
magnitude difference between the two.
But to me, the bigger deal has more to
do with how these types tend to relate.
When I was talking about debugging,
talking about making changes to code,
talking about making
additions to code even.
All I'm really thinking about is
how these types interrelate and
what things I can put out of my mind,
and these pathways I can close off
as I'm sort of traversing my search space
for implications of what I'm about to do.
And what controls types?
What controls the number of
pathways that I have to traverse?
What controls how deep those pathways go?
Is what gets exposed.
So just by virtue of the fact that
this internals thing is not exposed,
I know that any time here
that I'm using internals,
that's something that only
exists in this module.
There is no external dependency to that.
I know that for a fact cuz it
doesn't ever escape this module.
Likewise, even if I have a much
bigger one like for example, author.
Author is about half the size
of the editor page, but
is significantly bigger than profile.
It's still built around this idea of one
data structure, in this case the author.
So we have a decoder,
like we did for the profile.
We have a couple of other things.
You can fetch an author, you can follow,
you can get a followButton.
There are requests for
following and unfollowing, and
then there's username and there's view.
Those are the, sort of the, this is
the entire API for working with an author.
And all of these things are related.
And for as much stuff as this is
exposing compared to the profile,
there's a whole bunch more
that it's not exposing.
For example, it doesn't expose
the constructors of these things.
These are both opaque types.
The implementation of username is
completely secret from the outside world.
As far as outsiders know, username
just says hey, give me an author and
I'll give you back the username.
And it says yeah, okay, that's fine,
but I happen to know how to do that for
all of the different types of things
that go on within a username.
We also can get the profile out of those,
no matter which combination
of things we have there.
So all of these things that are internal
just like request help right here.
We talked about help functions
more in the next section.
Anytime I have potential bug in any of
these, anytime I have potential change I
want to make any of these, all I have to
look at is what actually gets exposed.
If it's not expose, if it's only a
dependency if things that don't get expose
then we don't have to consider
any of the other modules.
So really, that's where the sort of
implications of one value on another,
one function on another come from.
It has to do with the types and
what's exposed, not so
much the length of the module.
If I were to take this editor page and
chop it up arbitrarily, I just said,
I'm gonna take the first third and
move that into a module.
And the second third and
move that into another module.
And the third third and
move that into a third module.
What would I have done?
Well, I can produce the line count.
Have I actually depends on what else?
No, I have the same search space before.
In fact, now I only have a larger source
space because I only have more files to
traverse.
And so, it's actually going to take me
a longer to debug, longer to make changes,
longer to figure out
where things are going,
because I'm switching files more often for
no corresponding benefit.
I've already organized these
things into a module such that
I can draw tight module
boundaries around it.
And say, I can expose as little as
possible because all of these things
are related, they all go in one module,
and they're all interdependent anyway.
If I were to split them up
into three different modules,
I would start having to over-expose.
I would have to say this module needs to
expose to the entire world this particular
piece of implementation details just so
this first module can have access to it.
Whereas if I put them all in one module,
if they only depend on one another,
I can just not expose them at all.
And I can limit the scope to say this
only is a concern within this module.
Now, again, this only happens because
all functions in Elm are pure.
If I were in JavaScript that
would not be true anymore.
In JavaScript every
single line in a module
can potentially affect every single
other line, every line of code.
You can run a side effect, you can mutate
some global, it can read from a global.
So there's no guarantee that by
taking what's going on in a module,
I can't just hop from type
definition to type definition, and
think only in terms of the types to
figure out how things interrelate.
I also have to look at all the lines in
between to figure out what's going on.
So that creates, naturally speaking,
a habit to say,
lower line counts are better.
Lower line counts are more maintainable.
And I think in JavaScript that's true.
But it's not true in Elm
the opposite is true.
When you think in terms
of line counts in Elm,
you're sacrificing this huge
opportunity to draw tighter boundaries.
When you split things up
arbitrarily based on line length,
you're forced to over expose and
actually cause more harm than good.
So the better structure when
you're scaling an Elm application
is to start off by just picking
a module and adding to it.
Just saying, I've already got this module
here or maybe I'm creating a new page.
New pages say you're gonna
want a new module for it.
And just start adding stuff to it.
Just build, build, build, build, build.
And at some points you'll
decide to split it.
Not because you said it was too big or
too many lines of code.
That's not really a thing.
But rather because you've identified
a subset of it that you could pull out and
put it into its own module,
because they're all related.
And you could hide parts of it.
So the motivation for
splitting out a module is not so
much that we've decided something was
too big or too many lines of code.
But rather that we've identified
the opportunity to make something else
that's smaller.
Out of some related
group of functionality.
That's really where the money is,
because that's what feeds into all the
things we were talking about previously.
All these ideas of how we're going to
traverse our code base when we're trying
to figure out the implications of change,
a bug we're trying to fix, or
even just some new addition we're making.
So, that's what I mean by
using modules for modularity.
To break things up into self contained
modules that expose ideally less than
what they implement.
Let's move on to the Review.
So what fits in our heads?
This is the idea of eventually
our program is going to
outgrow what we can keep in our heads if
we keep building, it and building it out.
The only solution to that is to
be able to have techniques for
chopping it up into smaller bits.
So that we can eventually
narrow down the potential
implications of what we're trying to do
to something that does fit in our heads.
Or if its still something that does fit
in our heads at least something where we
can make a change, and
not the compile tells what to do next.
Our mean tool for
doing this is narrowing types.
If we were to say we're gonna pass model
to everything and how everything will turn
a tool of model and command a message we
really couldn't narrow this down at all.
We would have to look at every function,
everything is a potential corporate for
every bug.
Every change that we make potentially
has an impact on everything else.
But if we narrow the types, we can very,
very quickly rule out potential culprits
and potential things that are impacted by
changes we're gonna make just
by looking at the types.
We don't even have to glance
at the implementation.
We talked about enforcement arguments,
which is a way of sort of,
instead of narrowing types, it's a way of
adding arguments to something in order
to show a dependency that's actually
there in terms of our business logic.
So something, for example like saying, we
don't want to make is possible to render
a follow button or
a favorite button unless you're logged in.
Or even the save button,
because you're only allowed to do
those actions if you are logged in.
By putting them in the message,
we say this is no longer
possible to do in the view.
You can not instantiate one of these
unless you're able to provide an argument
that demonstrates that you are logged in.
We talked about using modules for
modularity which is to say the idea
of growing your models one at a time.
Building them out, building them out,
building them out.
And only splitting them into different
modules when we realize that there is
a subset of them that we could profitably
split out, and make something smaller,
a self contain unit,
usually based around one particular type.
As oppose to saying this
file feels too long,
I'm going to split it, which can cause the
problems of needing to over expose things
in order to make
the dependencies work out.